##var
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/var


JavaScript has typed values, not typed variables.

The following built-in types are available:


    string
    number
    boolean
    null and undefined
    object
    symbol (new to ES6)

Javascript provides typeof operator to examine the type.

    a = { b: "c" };
    typeof a;   // "object"

    typeof null

One of most useful value type is object.

    var obj = {
        a: "hello world",
        b: 42,
        c: true
    };

    obj.a;      // "hello world"
    obj.b;      // 42
    obj.c;      // true

Properties can either be accessed with dot notation (i.e., obj.a) or bracket notation (i.e., obj["a"]). Dot notation is shorter and generally easier to read, and is thus preferred when possible.


    obj["hello world!"] // with special characters
    a = 'name'
    obj[a]

###Arrays

Arrays holds values not in key=value pairs. It holds it in numerically indexed position.

    var arr = [
        "hello world",
        42,
        true
    ];

###Functions

    function foo() {
        return 42;
    }

    foo.bar = "hello world";

    typeof foo;         // "function"
    typeof foo();       // "number"
    typeof foo.bar;     // "string"

Functions are a subtype of objects -- typeof returns "function", which implies that a function is a main type -- and can thus have properties.

The variable statement declares a variable, optionally initializing it to a value.

    function x() {
      y = 1;   // Throws a ReferenceError in strict mode 'use strict;'
      var z = 2;
    }

    x();

    console.log(y); // logs "1" 
    console.log(z);

##Declared & Undeclared variables.

1. Declared variables are constrained in the execution context in which they are declared. Undeclared variables are always global.


    console.log(a);                // Throws a ReferenceError.
    console.log('still going...'); // Never executes.

    var a;
    console.log(a);                // logs "undefined" or "" depending on browser.
    console.log('still going...'); // logs "still going...".

    console.log(a); 
    var a;         
    console.log('still going...');



2. Declared variables are created before any code is executed. 
Undeclared variables do not exist until the code assigning to them is executed.


    console.log(a); 
    var a=1;         
    delete a;
    console.log(a); 


3. Declared variables are a non-configurable property of their execution context (function or global). Undeclared variables are configurable (e.g. can be deleted).


Because of these three differences, failure to declare variables will very likely lead to unexpected results. Thus it is recommended to always declare variables, regardless of whether they are in a function or global scope.

You can use "use strict"; Even inside function.

    function foo() {
        "use strict";

        // this code is strict mode

        function bar() {
            // this code is strict mode
        }
    }

    // this code is not strict mode


It is recommended to always declare variables at the top of their scope.

### Examples

    var a = 0, b = 0;

    var a, b = a = "A";


    var x = y, y = 'A';
    console.log(x + y); // undefined

So, x is assigned the undefined value. Then, y is assigned a value of 'A'. 
Consequently, after the first line, x === undefined && y === 'A', hence the result.

### Global & local variables

    var x = 0;

    function f(){
        var x = 1;
        console.log(x);
    };

    console.log(x);
    f();

The first line puts x variable to the global scope.
Inside the function this variable is local.

###Reference to the global scope from inside the function.

    var a = 1;

    function f(){
        var x = 3;
        console.log(x);
        function b(){
            var x = 4;
            a = 12; //doesn't create a new global var
            console.log(x);
        }
        b();
    };

        f();
        console.log(a);

###Multiply initialization inside the function.

    function f(){
      var x = y = 1; // x is declared locally. y is not!
    }

    equal var x = (y = 1) because operations go from the right to the left


    function foo() {
    var x, y;
    // ...
    x = y = 1; // now both vars are local
    }

###Pattern with single var statment.

        function func() {
            var a = 1,
            b = 2,
            sum = a + b,
            myobject = {},
            i,
            j;
            // function's body
        }

Optimization of the retrieving DOM elements.

        function updateElement() {
            var el = document.getElementById(“result”),
            style = el.style;
            // to do with el and style...
        }



###Nested Scopes

When you declare a variable, it is available anywhere in that scope, as well as any lower/inner scopes. For example:

    function foo() {
        var a = 1;

        function bar() {
            var b = 2;

            function baz() {
                var c = 3;

                console.log( a, b, c ); // 1 2 3
            }

            baz();
            console.log( a, b );        // 1 2
        }

        bar();
        console.log( a );               // 1
    }

    foo();

Notice that c is not available inside of bar(), because it's declared only inside the inner baz() scope, and that b is not available to foo() for the same reason.

###Hoisting


    myname = “global”; // global variable
    
    function func() {
        alert(myname);
        // “undefined”
        var myname = “local”;
        alert(myname);
        // “local”
    }
    func();

Always define your variables at the begining of your functions.

###How to avoid criating global variables.

    <script>
        (function () {  
            // Local scope
            var tmp = 'Dima' 
        })();  
    </script>

