##Loops

###While loop

    while (numOfCustomers > 0) {
        console.log( "How may I help you?" );

        // help the customer...

        numOfCustomers = numOfCustomers - 1;
    }



    do {
        console.log( "How may I help you?" );

        // help the customer...

        numOfCustomers = numOfCustomers - 1;
    } while (numOfCustomers > 0);

You can use break statement to stop a loop.

    var i = 0;

    // a `while..true` loop would run forever, right?
    while (true) {
        // stop the loop?
        if ((i <= 9) === false) {
            break;
        }

        console.log( i );
        i = i + 1;
    }

##For construction

    for (var i = 0; i <= 9; i = i + 1) {
        console.log( i );
    }

###Not very optimal using.

    for (var i = 0; i < myarray.length; i++) {
       .... to do something
    }

The drawback is that in every iteration it determines the length of myarray espatially if it is not array but HTMLCollection.

HTMLCollection is an object returned by this methods:

    • document.getElementsByName()
    • document.getElementsByClassName()
    • document.getElementsByTagName()

Nice decision is.

    for (var i = 0, max = myarray.length; i < max; i++) {
       .... to do something
    }

Here we define the length only once in the begining of the loop.

We can carry out var definition outside the loop constraction.

    function looper() {
        var i = 0,
        max,
        myarray = [];
      
        for (i = 0, max = myarray.length; i < max; i++) {
            ...
        }
    }

###Note: Better use i=i+1 or i += 1 instead of i++.

##The best practice.

    var i, myarray = ['one','two'],
    max = myarray.length;

    for (i = max; i--;) {
     console.log('i='+i);
    }


    var myarray = ['one','two'],
    i = myarray.length;

    while (i--) {
      console.log('i='+i);
    }


##For-in loop (ennumiration).

For-in iteration need to be used only for objects that are not arrays.

    var me = {
            name: 'Dima',
            age: 39,
            weight: 75
        }

        for( p in me){
            console.log(p+':'+me[p]);
        }

We can use adittional condition.

    for( p in me)if (p!='name'){
        console.log(p+':'+me[p]);
    }

##Functions

    var foo = function(par) {
        console.log('anonimus-'+par)
    };

    var x = function bar(par){
        console.log('named-'+par)
    };   

    foo('hello');
    x('hello')
    



