##Angular apply and digest

http://jimhoskins.com/2012/12/17/angularjs-and-apply.html

So Angular lets us bind parts of our interface to data in our JavaScript code, but how does it know when data changes, and the page needs updating?

There are two main strategies.

1. One strategy is to use special objects, where data is set via methods, not property assignments. 

    obj.set('key', 'value') 

Instead of obj.key = 'value'. Frameworks like EmberJS and KnockoutJS use this strategy.


2. AngularJS takes a different approach: allow any value to be used as a binding target. Then at the end of any JavaScript code turn, check to see if the value has changed. This may seem inneficient at first, but there are some clever strategies to reduce the performance hit. The big benefit is we can use normal objects and update our data however we want, and the changes will be noticed and reflected in our bindings.

For this strategy to work, we need to know when data has possibly changed, and this is where $scope.$apply comes into play.


That step that checks to see if any binding values have changed actually has a method, $scope.$digest(). That’s actually where the magic happens, but we almost never call it directly, instead we use $scope.$apply() which will call $scope.$digest() for you.


We are using setTimeout, which will execute a function in a new turn after a delay. Since Angular doesn’t know about that new turn, the update will not be reflected.

    function Ctrl($scope) {
      $scope.message = "Waiting 2000ms for update";
        
        setTimeout(function () {
            $scope.message = "Timeout called!";
            // AngularJS unaware of update to $scope
        }, 2000);
    }


But, if we wrap the code for that turn in $scope.$apply(), the change will be noticed, and the page is updated.


    function Ctrl($scope) {
      $scope.message = "Waiting 2000ms for update";
        
        setTimeout(function () {
            $scope.$apply(function () {
                $scope.message = "Timeout called!";
            });
        }, 2000);
    }


As a convenience, AngularJS provides $timeout, which is like setTimeout, but automatically wraps your code in $apply by default. Use that, not this


    app.controller('testCtrl', function($scope,$timeout) {

        setTimeout(function () {
            $timeout(function () {
                $scope.message = "Timeout called!";
                console.log('calling');
            });

        }, 2000);
       
    });
    
    
Sometimes I see examples where data is updated, and then $scope.$apply() is called with no arguments. This achieves the desired result, but misses some opportunities.

If your code isn’t wrapped in a function passed to $apply, and it throws an error, that error is thrown outside of AngularJS, which means any error handling being used in your application is going to miss it. $apply not only runs your code, but it runs it in a try/catch so your error is always caught, and the $digest call is in a finally clause, meaning it will run regardless of an error being thrown. That’s pretty nice.

    
    
        $scope.start = function(){
           console.log('start');
            setInterval(function(){
                $scope.time = new Date();
                console.log('updated');
                $scope.$apply();
            }, 1000);
        }; 
        


